ENCA001		DOB 4/17/11

1/20/17

IDENTIFICATION:
XXX is a 5-year-old girl with a past medical history significant for an extreme premature birth
and resultant spastic diplegic cerebral palsy, function level GMFCS (gross motor function
classification system) III. She is being seen for reevaluation, having last been seen by myself on
10/10/2016. In the interim, she had botulinum toxin injections on 11/08/2016 under sedation. These
consisted of 40 units to the left medial hamstring and 40 units to the left gastrocnemius. She
continues on her oral baclofen 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. The family reports that they were not able to go
to t.i.d. due to insufficient pills and the monthly prescription.

From a tone perspective, the family reports that XXX is doing much better. She is able to get her
heals down more. They feel that she is more loose and beginning to make progress with her gait
training. She is doing more independent standing. She has not had any complications or illnesses
associated with the injections.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Premature birth.
2. Cerebral palsy.
3. Developmental delay.
4. Speech delay.

MEDICATIONS:
Baclofen 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:
PENICILLIN.

EQUIPMENT:
1. Bilateral AFOs (ankle-foot orthoses), not present today during evaluation.
2. Manual wheelchair.
3. Posterior rolling walker.

THERAPIES:
XXX works with YYY twice a month at Starr King for occupational therapy and ZZZ once a week at
Starr King for physical therapy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:

VITAL SIGNS:
Weight was 13.3 kg. Height was 104.1 cm. Temperature 36.9. Heart rate was 96. Respirations 28. Blood
pressure 97/37.

HEENT:
Microcephalic with open-mouth posture, spilling of saliva.

NECK:
Neck supple with good head control.

SPINE:
Spine is straight without evidence of scoliosis. Minimal synergistic posturing of the left arm
greater than right.

EXTREMITIES:
In the lower extremities, Galeazzi sign was negative. Hip abduction was wide and symmetric. Knees
extended fully. There was more of a catch behind the left knee than the right. Her left ankle could
easily be dorsiflexed past neutral with the knee straight. This was a significant improvement from
her initial exam.

Neuromotor examination of her gait shows a toe-toe pattern, but she was able to get heel contact in
midstance.

IMAGING:
Her last set of hip x-rays were performed on 10/10/2016. These showed minimal uncovering of the
bilateral femoral heads.

IMPRESSION:
XXX is a 5-year-old girl with a past medical history significant for a premature birth and
resultant diplegic cerebral palsy, GMFCS level III. She has had good tone control with her baclofen
and Botox.



10/30/17
IDENTIFICATION:
XXX is a 6-year-old young African-American girl with a past medical history significant for
extreme premature birth and resultant spastic diplegic cerebral palsy currently gross motor function
classification system (GMFCS) level III.  She was last seen in clinic on 01/20/2017 by Dr. AAA, at which time it was recommended to continue with therapies and current baclofen dose was
increased to a 2.5 t.i.d. from b.i.d. at that time.  Previously, she was seen by Dr. AAA for Botox
injections in November 2016, under sedation, which consisted of 40 units to the left medial
hamstring and 40 units to the left gastrocnemius muscles. Prior to this she also received serial
stretch casting for the left lower extremity, which had only minimal benefit thereafter.

INTERVAL HISTORY:
Mother reports since the last visit here in clinic, she has had no major illnesses or
hospitalizations. She has increased the baclofen from 2.5 b.i.d. to 2.5 t.i.d., and feels like this
is working well for XXX. She reports that the patient is continuing with physical therapy every
other week at Starr King and they have been working on ambulation without assistance in addition to
balance. Mother reports that overall she continues to be improving at this time. She does feel like
she, as she describes, loose in the lower extremities, but has had some development and return of
tone at the left ankle as before the Botox injections were initially done. Mother presents today
with questions about potentially repeating the injections and further questioning regarding
assistance with gait training.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Premature birth.
2.  Cerebral palsy.
3.  Developmental delay
4.  Speech delay.

MEDICATIONS:
Baclofen 2.5 p.o. t.i.d.
